docs/how-to/extract-data-from-spans.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Span queries can help you extract data from your traces. This is useful for
  performing LLM Evals by extracting specific pieces of information from your
  traces into a pandas dataframe.
---

# Extract Data from Spans

## Quick Links

* [Cookbook for LLM Evaluations](extract-data-from-spans.md#cookbook-for-llm-evaluations)
* [Predefined Queries](extract-data-from-spans.md#predefined-queries)

## Introduction

Traces often come with a heterogeneous mixture of data under different span kinds. Span queries let you filter on a specific kind of span, extract the attribute you want, and perform data transformations on an attribute, e.g. exploding a list of retrieved documents into separate rows in a DataFrame so that each document can be evaluated by an LLM for relevance.

* [Filtering spans](extract-data-from-spans.md#filtering-spans)
* [Extracting span attributes](extract-data-from-spans.md#extracting-span-attributes)
* [Exploding](extract-data-from-spans.md#exploding-multiple-attributes) or [concatenating](extract-data-from-spans.md#concatenating) span attributes that are lists (e.g. `retrieval.documents`)

<figure><img src="https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix-assets/blob/main/images/blog/evaluation_flow.png?raw=true" alt=""><figcaption><p>Use span queries to extract data from phoenix for evaluation</p></figcaption></figure>

## Example

Let's say we want to extract the retrieved documents into a DataFrame that looks something like the table below, where `input` denotes the query for the retriever, `reference` denotes the content of each document, and `document_position` denotes the (zero-based) index in each span's list of retrieved documents.

Note that this DataFrame can be used directly as input for the [Retrieval (RAG) Relevance evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/retrieval-rag-relevance.md#how-to-run-the-eval).

| context.span\_id | document\_position | input                                            | reference                                                |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| 5B8EF798A381     | 0                  | What was the author's motivation for writing ... | In fact, I decided to write a book about ...             |
| 5B8EF798A381     | 1                  | What was the author's motivation for writing ... | I started writing essays again, and wrote a bunch of ... |
| ...              | ...                | ...                                              | ...                                                      |
| E19B7EC3GG02     | 0                  | What did the author learn about ...              | The good part was that I got paid huge amounts of ...    |

We can accomplish this with a simple query as follows. Also see [Predefined Queries](extract-data-from-spans.md#retrieved-documents) for a helper function executing this query.

```python
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery

query = SpanQuery().where(
    # Filter for the `RETRIEVER` span kind.
    # The filter condition is a string of valid Python boolean expression.
    "span_kind == 'RETRIEVER'",
).select(
    # Extract the span attribute `input.value` which contains the query for the
    # retriever. Rename it as the `input` column in the output dataframe.
    input="input.value",
).explode(
    # Specify the span attribute `retrieval.documents` which contains a list of
    # objects and explode the list. Extract the `document.content` attribute from
    # each object and rename it as the `reference` column in the output dataframe.
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
)

# The active Phoenix session can take this query and return the dataframe.
px.active_session().query_spans(query)
```

## DataFrame Index

By default, the result dataframe is indexed by `span_id`, and if `.explode()` is used, the index from the exploded list is added to create a multi-index on the result dataframe. For the special `retrieval.documents` span attribute, the added index is renamed as `document_position`.

## Exploding Multiple Attributes

In addition to the document content, if we also want to explode the document score, we can simply add the `document.score` attribute to the `.explode()` method alongside `document.content` as follows. Keyword arguments are necessary to name the output columns, and in this example we name the output columns as `reference` and `score`. (Python's double-asterisk unpacking idiom can be used to specify arbitrary output names containing spaces or symbols. See [here](extract-data-from-spans.md#arbitrary-output-column-names) for an example.)

```python
query = SpanQuery().explode(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
    score="document.score",
)
```

## Filtering Spans

The `.where()` method accepts a string of valid Python boolean expression. The expression can be arbitrarily complex, but restrictions apply, e.g. making function calls are generally disallowed. Below is a conjunction filtering also on whether the input value contains the string `'programming'`.

```python
query = SpanQuery().where(
    "span_kind == 'RETRIEVER' and 'programming' in input.value"
)
```

#### Filtering Spans by Evaluation Results

Filtering spans by evaluation results, e.g. `score` or `label`, can be done via a special syntax. The name of the evaluation is specified as an indexer on the special keyword `evals`. The example below filters for spans with the `incorrect` label on their `correctness` evaluations. (See [here](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/) for how to compute evaluations for traces, and [here](define-your-schema/llm-evaluations.md) for how to ingest those results back to Phoenix.)

```python
query = SpanQuery().where(
    "evals['correctness'].label == 'incorrect'"
)
```

## Extracting Span Attributes

Span attributes can be selected by simply listing them inside `.select()` method.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(
    "input.value",
    "output.value,
)
```

#### Renaming Output Columns

Keyword-argument style can be used to rename the columns in the dataframe. The example below returns two columns named `input` and `output` instead of the original names of the attributes.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(
    input="input.value",
    output="output.value,
)
```

#### Arbitrary Output Column Names&#x20;

If arbitrary output names are desired, e.g. names with spaces and symbols, we can leverage Python's double-asterisk idiom for unpacking a dictionary, as shown below.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(**{
    "Value (Input)": "input.value",
    "Value (Output)": "output.value,
})
```

## Advanced Usage

### Concatenating

The document contents can also be concatenated together. The query below concatenates the list of `document.content` with `\n\n` (double newlines), which is the default separator. Keyword arguments are necessary to name the output columns, and in this example we name the output column as `reference`. (Python's double-asterisk unpacking idiom can be used to specify arbitrary output names containing spaces or symbols. See [here](extract-data-from-spans.md#arbitrary-output-column-names) for an example.)

```python
query = SpanQuery().concat(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
)
```

#### Special Separators

If a different separator is desired, say `\n************\n`, it can be specified as follows.

```python
query = SpanQuery().concat(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
).with_concat_separator(
    separator="\n************\n",
)
```

### Using Parent ID as Index

This is useful for joining a span to its parent span. To do that we would first index the child span by selecting its parent ID and renaming it as `span_id`. This works because `span_id` is a special column name: whichever column having that name will become the index of the output DataFrame.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(
    span_id="parent_id",
    output="output.value,
)
```

### Joining a Span to Its Parent

To do this, we would provide two queries to Phoenix which will return two simultaneous dataframes that can be joined together by pandas. The `query_for_child_spans` uses `parent_id` as index as shown in [Using Parent ID as Index](extract-data-from-spans.md#using-parent-id-as-index), and `session.query_spans()` returns a list of dataframes when multiple queries are given.

```python
import pandas as pd

pd.concatenate(
    px.active_session().query_spans(
        query_for_parent_spans,
        query_for_child_spans,
    ),
    axis=1,        # joining on the row indices
    join="inner",  # inner-join by the indices of the dataframes
)
```

## Cookbook for LLM Evaluations

### Extract the Input and Output from LLM Spans

To learn more about extracting span attributes, see [Extracting Span Attributes](extract-data-from-spans.md#extracting-span-attributes).

```python
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery

query = SpanQuery().where(
    "span_kind == 'LLM'",
).select(
    input="input.value",
    output="output.value,
)

# The active Phoenix session can take this query and return a dataframe.
px.active_session().query_spans(query)
```

### Retrieval (RAG) Relevance Evaluations

To extract the dataframe input for [Retrieval (RAG) Relevance evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/retrieval-rag-relevance.md#how-to-run-the-eval), we can apply the query described in the [Example](extract-data-from-spans.md#example), or leverage the [helper](extract-data-from-spans.md#retrieved-documents) function implementing the same query.

### Q\&A on Retrieved Data Evaluations

To extract the dataframe input to the [Q\&A on Retrieved Data evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/q-and-a-on-retrieved-data.md#how-to-run-the-eval), we can use a [helper](extract-data-from-spans.md#q-and-a-on-retrieved-data) function or use the following query (which is what's inside the helper function). This query applies techniques described in the [Advanced Usage](extract-data-from-spans.md#advanced-usage) section.

```python
import pandas as pd
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery

query_for_root_span = SpanQuery().where(
    "parent_id is None",   # Filter for root spans
).select(
    input="input.value",   # Input contains the user's question
    output="output.value", # Output contains the LLM's answer
)

query_for_retrieved_documents = SpanQuery().where(
    "span_kind == 'RETRIEVER'",  # Filter for RETRIEVER span
).select(
    # Rename parent_id as span_id. This turns the parent_id
    # values into the index of the output dataframe.
    span_id="parent_id",
).concat(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
)

# Perform an inner join on the two sets of spans.
pd.concat(
    px.active_session().query_spans(
        query_for_root_span,
        query_for_retrieved_documents,
    ),
    axis=1,
    join="inner",
)
```

## Predefined Queries

Phoenix also provides helper functions that executes predefined queries for the following use cases.

### Retrieved Documents

The query shown in the [example](extract-data-from-spans.md#example) can be done more simply with a helper function as follows. The output dataframe can be used directly as input for the [Retrieval (RAG) Relevance evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/retrieval-rag-relevance.md#how-to-run-the-eval).

```python
from phoenix.session.evaluation import get_retrieved_documents

retrieved_documents = get_retrieved_documents(px.active_session())
retrieved_documents
```

### Q\&A on Retrieved Data

To extract the dataframe input to the [Q\&A on Retrieved Data evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/q-and-a-on-retrieved-data.md#how-to-run-the-eval), we can use the following helper function.

```python
from phoenix.session.evaluation import get_qa_with_reference

qa_with_reference = get_qa_with_reference(px.active_session())
qa_with_reference
```

The output DataFrame would look something like the one below. The `input` contains contains the question, the `output` column contains the answer, and the `reference` column contains a concatenation of all the retrieved documents. This helper function assumes that the questions and answers are the `input.value` and `output.value` attributes of the root spans, and the list of retrieved documents are contained in a direct child span of the root span. (The helper function applies the techniques described in the [Advanced Usage](extract-data-from-spans.md#advanced-usage) section.)

<table><thead><tr><th width="179">context.span_id</th><th>input</th><th>output</th><th>reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>CDBC4CE34</td><td>What was the author's trick for ...</td><td>The author's trick for ...</td><td>Even then it took me several years to understand ...</td></tr><tr><td>...</td><td>...</td><td>...</td><td>...</td></tr></tbody></table>

Commit message:

docs: replace p.active_session() with px.Client() (GITBOOK-486)

docs/how-to/extract-data-from-spans.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Span queries can help you extract data from your traces. This is useful for
  performing LLM Evals by extracting specific pieces of information from your
  traces into a pandas dataframe.
---

# Extract Data from Spans

## Quick Links

* [Cookbook for LLM Evaluations](extract-data-from-spans.md#cookbook-for-llm-evaluations)
* [Predefined Queries](extract-data-from-spans.md#predefined-queries)

## Introduction

Traces often come with a heterogeneous mixture of data under different span kinds. Span queries let you filter on a specific kind of span, extract the attribute you want, and perform data transformations on an attribute, e.g. exploding a list of retrieved documents into separate rows in a DataFrame so that each document can be evaluated by an LLM for relevance.

* [Filtering spans](extract-data-from-spans.md#filtering-spans)
* [Extracting span attributes](extract-data-from-spans.md#extracting-span-attributes)
* [Exploding](extract-data-from-spans.md#exploding-multiple-attributes) or [concatenating](extract-data-from-spans.md#concatenating) span attributes that are lists (e.g. `retrieval.documents`)

<figure><img src="https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix-assets/blob/main/images/blog/evaluation_flow.png?raw=true" alt=""><figcaption><p>Use span queries to extract data from phoenix for evaluation</p></figcaption></figure>

## Example

Let's say we want to extract the retrieved documents into a DataFrame that looks something like the table below, where `input` denotes the query for the retriever, `reference` denotes the content of each document, and `document_position` denotes the (zero-based) index in each span's list of retrieved documents.

Note that this DataFrame can be used directly as input for the [Retrieval (RAG) Relevance evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/retrieval-rag-relevance.md#how-to-run-the-eval).

| context.span\_id | document\_position | input                                            | reference                                                |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| 5B8EF798A381     | 0                  | What was the author's motivation for writing ... | In fact, I decided to write a book about ...             |
| 5B8EF798A381     | 1                  | What was the author's motivation for writing ... | I started writing essays again, and wrote a bunch of ... |
| ...              | ...                | ...                                              | ...                                                      |
| E19B7EC3GG02     | 0                  | What did the author learn about ...              | The good part was that I got paid huge amounts of ...    |

We can accomplish this with a simple query as follows. Also see [Predefined Queries](extract-data-from-spans.md#retrieved-documents) for a helper function executing this query.

```python
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery

query = SpanQuery().where(
    # Filter for the `RETRIEVER` span kind.
    # The filter condition is a string of valid Python boolean expression.
    "span_kind == 'RETRIEVER'",
).select(
    # Extract the span attribute `input.value` which contains the query for the
    # retriever. Rename it as the `input` column in the output dataframe.
    input="input.value",
).explode(
    # Specify the span attribute `retrieval.documents` which contains a list of
    # objects and explode the list. Extract the `document.content` attribute from
    # each object and rename it as the `reference` column in the output dataframe.
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
)

# The Phoenix Client can take this query and return the dataframe.
px.Client().query_spans(query)
```

## DataFrame Index

By default, the result dataframe is indexed by `span_id`, and if `.explode()` is used, the index from the exploded list is added to create a multi-index on the result dataframe. For the special `retrieval.documents` span attribute, the added index is renamed as `document_position`.

## Exploding Multiple Attributes

In addition to the document content, if we also want to explode the document score, we can simply add the `document.score` attribute to the `.explode()` method alongside `document.content` as follows. Keyword arguments are necessary to name the output columns, and in this example we name the output columns as `reference` and `score`. (Python's double-asterisk unpacking idiom can be used to specify arbitrary output names containing spaces or symbols. See [here](extract-data-from-spans.md#arbitrary-output-column-names) for an example.)

```python
query = SpanQuery().explode(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
    score="document.score",
)
```

## Filtering Spans

The `.where()` method accepts a string of valid Python boolean expression. The expression can be arbitrarily complex, but restrictions apply, e.g. making function calls are generally disallowed. Below is a conjunction filtering also on whether the input value contains the string `'programming'`.

```python
query = SpanQuery().where(
    "span_kind == 'RETRIEVER' and 'programming' in input.value"
)
```

#### Filtering Spans by Evaluation Results

Filtering spans by evaluation results, e.g. `score` or `label`, can be done via a special syntax. The name of the evaluation is specified as an indexer on the special keyword `evals`. The example below filters for spans with the `incorrect` label on their `correctness` evaluations. (See [here](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/) for how to compute evaluations for traces, and [here](define-your-schema/llm-evaluations.md) for how to ingest those results back to Phoenix.)

```python
query = SpanQuery().where(
    "evals['correctness'].label == 'incorrect'"
)
```

## Extracting Span Attributes

Span attributes can be selected by simply listing them inside `.select()` method.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(
    "input.value",
    "output.value,
)
```

#### Renaming Output Columns

Keyword-argument style can be used to rename the columns in the dataframe. The example below returns two columns named `input` and `output` instead of the original names of the attributes.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(
    input="input.value",
    output="output.value,
)
```

#### Arbitrary Output Column Names&#x20;

If arbitrary output names are desired, e.g. names with spaces and symbols, we can leverage Python's double-asterisk idiom for unpacking a dictionary, as shown below.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(**{
    "Value (Input)": "input.value",
    "Value (Output)": "output.value,
})
```

## Advanced Usage

### Concatenating

The document contents can also be concatenated together. The query below concatenates the list of `document.content` with `\n\n` (double newlines), which is the default separator. Keyword arguments are necessary to name the output columns, and in this example we name the output column as `reference`. (Python's double-asterisk unpacking idiom can be used to specify arbitrary output names containing spaces or symbols. See [here](extract-data-from-spans.md#arbitrary-output-column-names) for an example.)

```python
query = SpanQuery().concat(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
)
```

#### Special Separators

If a different separator is desired, say `\n************\n`, it can be specified as follows.

```python
query = SpanQuery().concat(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
).with_concat_separator(
    separator="\n************\n",
)
```

### Using Parent ID as Index

This is useful for joining a span to its parent span. To do that we would first index the child span by selecting its parent ID and renaming it as `span_id`. This works because `span_id` is a special column name: whichever column having that name will become the index of the output DataFrame.

```python
query = SpanQuery().select(
    span_id="parent_id",
    output="output.value,
)
```

### Joining a Span to Its Parent

To do this, we would provide two queries to Phoenix which will return two simultaneous dataframes that can be joined together by pandas. The `query_for_child_spans` uses `parent_id` as index as shown in [Using Parent ID as Index](extract-data-from-spans.md#using-parent-id-as-index), and `px.Client().query_spans()` returns a list of dataframes when multiple queries are given.

```python
import pandas as pd

pd.concatenate(
    px.Client().query_spans(
        query_for_parent_spans,
        query_for_child_spans,
    ),
    axis=1,        # joining on the row indices
    join="inner",  # inner-join by the indices of the dataframes
)
```

## Cookbook for LLM Evaluations

### Extract the Input and Output from LLM Spans

To learn more about extracting span attributes, see [Extracting Span Attributes](extract-data-from-spans.md#extracting-span-attributes).

```python
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery

query = SpanQuery().where(
    "span_kind == 'LLM'",
).select(
    input="input.value",
    output="output.value,
)

# The Phoenix Client can take this query and return a dataframe.
px.Client().query_spans(query)
```

### Retrieval (RAG) Relevance Evaluations

To extract the dataframe input for [Retrieval (RAG) Relevance evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/retrieval-rag-relevance.md#how-to-run-the-eval), we can apply the query described in the [Example](extract-data-from-spans.md#example), or leverage the [helper](extract-data-from-spans.md#retrieved-documents) function implementing the same query.

### Q\&A on Retrieved Data Evaluations

To extract the dataframe input to the [Q\&A on Retrieved Data evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/q-and-a-on-retrieved-data.md#how-to-run-the-eval), we can use a [helper](extract-data-from-spans.md#q-and-a-on-retrieved-data) function or use the following query (which is what's inside the helper function). This query applies techniques described in the [Advanced Usage](extract-data-from-spans.md#advanced-usage) section.

```python
import pandas as pd
from phoenix.trace.dsl import SpanQuery

query_for_root_span = SpanQuery().where(
    "parent_id is None",   # Filter for root spans
).select(
    input="input.value",   # Input contains the user's question
    output="output.value", # Output contains the LLM's answer
)

query_for_retrieved_documents = SpanQuery().where(
    "span_kind == 'RETRIEVER'",  # Filter for RETRIEVER span
).select(
    # Rename parent_id as span_id. This turns the parent_id
    # values into the index of the output dataframe.
    span_id="parent_id",
).concat(
    "retrieval.documents",
    reference="document.content",
)

# Perform an inner join on the two sets of spans.
pd.concat(
    px.Client().query_spans(
        query_for_root_span,
        query_for_retrieved_documents,
    ),
    axis=1,
    join="inner",
)
```

## Predefined Queries

Phoenix also provides helper functions that executes predefined queries for the following use cases.

### Retrieved Documents

The query shown in the [example](extract-data-from-spans.md#example) can be done more simply with a helper function as follows. The output dataframe can be used directly as input for the [Retrieval (RAG) Relevance evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/retrieval-rag-relevance.md#how-to-run-the-eval).

```python
from phoenix.session.evaluation import get_retrieved_documents

retrieved_documents = get_retrieved_documents(px.Client())
retrieved_documents
```

### Q\&A on Retrieved Data

To extract the dataframe input to the [Q\&A on Retrieved Data evaluations](../llm-evals/running-pre-tested-evals/q-and-a-on-retrieved-data.md#how-to-run-the-eval), we can use the following helper function.

```python
from phoenix.session.evaluation import get_qa_with_reference

qa_with_reference = get_qa_with_reference(px.Client())
qa_with_reference
```

The output DataFrame would look something like the one below. The `input` contains contains the question, the `output` column contains the answer, and the `reference` column contains a concatenation of all the retrieved documents. This helper function assumes that the questions and answers are the `input.value` and `output.value` attributes of the root spans, and the list of retrieved documents are contained in a direct child span of the root span. (The helper function applies the techniques described in the [Advanced Usage](extract-data-from-spans.md#advanced-usage) section.)

<table><thead><tr><th width="179">context.span_id</th><th>input</th><th>output</th><th>reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>CDBC4CE34</td><td>What was the author's trick for ...</td><td>The author's trick for ...</td><td>Even then it took me several years to understand ...</td></tr><tr><td>...</td><td>...</td><td>...</td><td>...</td></tr></tbody></table>
