docs/README.md, before:

---
description: >-
  Phoenix provides ML insights at lightning speed with zero-config observability
  for model drift, performance, and data quality.
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1610296669228-602fa827fc1f?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHw1fHxzcGFjZXxlbnwwfHx8fDE2NzkwOTMzODc&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# ML Observability in a Notebook

Running Phoenix for the first time? Get up and running with the [quickstart](tutorials-use-cases/quickstart.md).

[![Open in Colab](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20Colab\&logo=googlecolab\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=orange\&label=%20)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/quickstart.ipynb) [![Open in GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?message=Open%20in%20GitHub\&logo=github\&labelColor=grey\&color=blue\&logoColor=white\&label=%20)](https://github.com/Arize-ai/phoenix/blob/main/tutorials/quickstart.ipynb)

## What is Phoenix?

Phoenix is an Open Source ML Observability library designed for the Notebook. The toolset is designed to ingest model inference data for LLMs, CV, NLP and tabular datasets. It allows Data Scientists to quickly visualize their model data, monitor performance, track down issues & insights, and easily export to improve.&#x20;

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/Docs graphics-02.jpg" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

## Overview

#### Context&#x20;

* Deep Learning Models (CV, LLM, and Generative) are an amazing technology that will power many of the future ML use cases. &#x20;
* A large set of these technologies are being deployed into businesses (the real world) in what we consider a production setting.
* When they are in production, data scientists have no idea when models fail, when they make wrong decisions, or give poor responses (LLM), and incorrectly generalize.&#x20;
* One paradigm that has emerged is the use of embeddings and latent structure to analyze model decisions and find clusters of problems.&#x20;
* Fixing the problem typically consists of augmenting/editing upstream data, changing a prompt template or exporting data for use in training and/or fine tuning.&#x20;

#### Proposed Solution

This is where Phoenix comes in 😃 ML Observability helps you visualize, troubleshoot, and monitor complex model data.

* Lightweight connections to dataframes&#x20;
* Provides easy tools to generate and visualize embeddings
* Automatically find clusters of embeddings that represent "ideas" that the model has learned (manifolds)&#x20;
* Sorts clusters of issues using performance metrics or drift
* Built in workflows for model improvement&#x20;

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/Phoenix pipeline diagram - dark.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

**Phoenix Functionality**&#x20;

* **Discover How Embeddings Represent Your Data:** Map structured features onto embeddings for deeper insights into how embeddings represent your data.&#x20;
* **Evaluate LLM Tasks:** Troubleshoot tasks such as summarization or question/answering to find problem clusters with misleading or false answers.&#x20;
* **Find Clusters of Issues to Export for Model Improvement:** Find clusters of problems using performance metrics or drift. Export clusters for fine-tuning workflows.&#x20;
* **Detect Anomalies:** Using LLM embeddings&#x20;
* **Surface Model Drift and Multivariate Drift:** Use embedding drift to surface data drift for generative AI, LLMs, computer vision (CV) and tabular models.
* **Easily Compare A/B Datasets:** Uncover high-impact clusters of data points missing from model training data when comparing training and production datasets.&#x20;

### Phoenix Supported Model Types

* Tabular - Regression, Classification&#x20;
* CV&#x20;
* NLP
* LLM
* Ranking\* (coming soon)

\

Commit message:

docs: link to tutorials on homepage (GITBOOK-178)

docs/README.md, after:

---
description: >-
  Phoenix provides ML insights at lightning speed with zero-config observability
  for model drift, performance, and data quality.
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1610296669228-602fa827fc1f?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHw1fHxzcGFjZXxlbnwwfHx8fDE2NzkwOTMzODc&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# ML Observability in a Notebook

Running Phoenix for the first time? Check out the tutorials to explore the capabilities of Phoenix for various tasks and use cases.

<table data-card-size="large" data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th align="center"></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td align="center"><strong>Computer Vision</strong></td><td><a href="tutorials-use-cases/quickstart.md">quickstart.md</a></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>NLP</strong></td><td><a href="tutorials-use-cases/quickstart-1.md">quickstart-1.md</a></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Tabular Data</strong></td><td><a href="tutorials-use-cases/quickstart-2.md">quickstart-2.md</a></td></tr><tr><td align="center"><strong>Generative LLMs</strong></td><td><a href="tutorials/generative-llms.md">generative-llms.md</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

## What is Phoenix?

Phoenix is an Open Source ML Observability library designed for the Notebook. The toolset is designed to ingest model inference data for LLMs, CV, NLP and tabular datasets. It allows Data Scientists to quickly visualize their model data, monitor performance, track down issues & insights, and easily export to improve.&#x20;

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/Docs graphics-02.jpg" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

## Overview

#### Context&#x20;

* Deep Learning Models (CV, LLM, and Generative) are an amazing technology that will power many of the future ML use cases. &#x20;
* A large set of these technologies are being deployed into businesses (the real world) in what we consider a production setting.
* When they are in production, data scientists have no idea when models fail, when they make wrong decisions, or give poor responses (LLM), and incorrectly generalize.&#x20;
* One paradigm that has emerged is the use of embeddings and latent structure to analyze model decisions and find clusters of problems.&#x20;
* Fixing the problem typically consists of augmenting/editing upstream data, changing a prompt template or exporting data for use in training and/or fine tuning.&#x20;

#### Proposed Solution

This is where Phoenix comes in 😃 ML Observability helps you visualize, troubleshoot, and monitor complex model data.

* Lightweight connections to dataframes&#x20;
* Provides easy tools to generate and visualize embeddings
* Automatically find clusters of embeddings that represent "ideas" that the model has learned (manifolds)&#x20;
* Sorts clusters of issues using performance metrics or drift
* Built in workflows for model improvement&#x20;

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/Phoenix pipeline diagram - dark.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

**Phoenix Functionality**&#x20;

* **Discover How Embeddings Represent Your Data:** Map structured features onto embeddings for deeper insights into how embeddings represent your data.&#x20;
* **Evaluate LLM Tasks:** Troubleshoot tasks such as summarization or question/answering to find problem clusters with misleading or false answers.&#x20;
* **Find Clusters of Issues to Export for Model Improvement:** Find clusters of problems using performance metrics or drift. Export clusters for fine-tuning workflows.&#x20;
* **Detect Anomalies:** Using LLM embeddings&#x20;
* **Surface Model Drift and Multivariate Drift:** Use embedding drift to surface data drift for generative AI, LLMs, computer vision (CV) and tabular models.
* **Easily Compare A/B Datasets:** Uncover high-impact clusters of data points missing from model training data when comparing training and production datasets.&#x20;

### Phoenix Supported Model Types

* Tabular - Regression, Classification&#x20;
* CV&#x20;
* NLP
* LLM
* Ranking\* (coming soon)

\
